
Version 0.5 of the JBIG-KIT lossless image compression library available
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Markus Kuhn -- 1995-05-28


The latest release of JBIG-KIT can be downloaded over the Internet
with anonymous ftp from

  ftp.uni-erlangen.de   /pub/doc/ISO/JBIG/jbigkit-0.5.tar.gz

and from a number of other servers.

JBIG-KIT implements a highly effective data compression algorithm for
bi-level high-resolution images such as fax pages or scanned
documents.

JBIG-KIT provides a portable library of compression and decompression
functions with a documented interface that you can very easily include
into your image or document processing software. In addition, JBIG-KIT
provides ready-to-use compression and decompression programs with a
simple command line interface (similar to the converters found in Jef
Poskanzer's PBM graphics file conversion package).

JBIG-KIT conforms to International Standard ISO/IEC 11544 and ITU-T
Recommendation T.82, both of which are commonly refered to as the
"JBIG standard". JBIG (Joint Bi-level Image experts Group) is the
committee which developed this international standard for the lossless
compression of images using arithmetic coding. Like the well-known
compression algorithms JPEG and MPEG, also JBIG has been developed and
published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
and the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) (see also
<http://www.iso.ch> and <http://www.itu.ch>).

The JBIG compression algorithm offers the following features:

  - State-of-the-art lossless compression ratio for high resolution
    bi-level images.

  - Around 1.1 to 1.5 times better compression ratio on typical
    scanned documents compared to G4 fax compression (ITU-T T.6),
    which has been the best compression algorithm for scanned
    documents available prior to JBIG.

  - Up to 30 times better compression of scanned images with dithered
    images compared to G4 fax compression.

  - Around 2 times better compression on typical 300 dpi documents
    compared to 'gzip -9' on raw bitmaps.
    
  - Around 3-4 times better compression than GIF on typical 300 dpi
    documents.

  - Even much better competitive compression results on computer
    generated images which are free of scanning distortions.

  - JBIG supports hierarchical "progressive" encoding, i.e. it is
    possible to encode a low resolution image first, followed by
    resolution enhancement data. This allows e.g. a document browser
    to display already e.g. a good 75 dpi low resolution version of an
    image, while the data necessary to reconstruct the full 300 dpi
    version for laserprinter reproduction is still arriving (e.g. over
    a slow network link or mass storage medium).

  - The various resolution layers of a JBIG image in progressive
    encoding mode together require not much more space than a
    normal non-progressive mode encoded image (which JBIG also
    supports).

  - The progressive encoding mode utilizes a very sophisticated
    resolution reduction algorithm which offers highest quality
    low resolution versions that preserve the shape of characters as
    well as the integrity of thin lines and dithered images.

  - JBIG supports multiple bit planes and can this way also be used
    for greyscale and color images, although the main field of
    application is compression of bi-level images, i.e. images with
    only two different pixel values. For grayscale images with up to
    6 bit per pixel, JBIG performs superiour to JBIG's lossless
    mode.

The JBIG-KIT is free software under the GNU General Public Licence and
provides a portable library implemented in ANSI C for encoding and
decoding JBIG data streams together with documentation. The library is
not intended for 8- or 16-bit machine architectures (e.g. MS-DOS,
Atari ST, etc.) on which a number of very efficient optimization
techniques used in this software are not possible. For maximum
performance, a 32-bit processor is required (64-bit systems work too,
of course).

Special features of the JBIG-KIT implementation are:

  - Fully multi-thread capable design (no global or static variables,
    isolated malloc()/free() calls, etc.).

  - Capable of handling incomplete and growing JBIG data streams in
    order to allow earliest display of low resolution versions.

  - Capable of handling several incoming data streams simultaneously
    in one single process and task.

  - Especially designed with applications in mind that want to display
    incoming data as early as possible (e.g. similar to the way in
    which e.g. the Netscape WWW browser handles incoming GIF images).

  - Implements all JBIG features and options including progressive and
    sequential encoding, multiple bit planes, user specified
    resolution reduction and deterministic prediction tables, adaptive
    template changes for optimal performance on half-tone images,
    deterministic prediction, typical prediction in lowest and
    differential layers, various stripe orderings, etc. Only the SEQ
    and HITOLO options are currently not supported by the decoder
    (normally never required, but will probably be added later in case
    of user requirements).

  - Efficient code, optimized utilization of 32-bit processor
    registers.

  - Very easy to use documented C library interface.

  - Ready-to-use pbmtojbig and jbigtopbm converters.

Please send all questions, problem reports, patches, suggestions,
success stories, etc. to

  <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>

I will try to provide free support and maintainance for this software
at least for the next few months depending on my available time.

This library has been published in the hope that it will encourage the
development of good freely available scanned document handling and
transmission systems for the Internet so that large abounts of scanned
text can be made available to the global village easily.

Happy compressing ...

Markus Kuhn
